docs(www): 25 Workflows - Embedding components in Markdown with MDX (#14543)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/docs/mdx/writing-pages.md

---

> After [installing](/docs/mdx/getting-started) the plugin, MDX files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After [installing](/docs/mdx/getting-started) `gatsby-plugin-mdx`, MDX files
```

> written in `src/pages` will turn into pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
located in `src/pages` will turn into pages.
```

Pages are rendered at a URL that is constructed from the filesystem
path inside `src/pages`. An MDX file at `src/pages/awesome.mdx` will
result in a page being rendered at `mysite.com/awesome`.

> > The `gatsby-mdx` plugin looks for MDX files and automatically

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> `gatsby-plugin-mdx` looks for MDX files and automatically
```

> transpiles them so that Gatsby internals can render them.

## Using frontmatter in MDX

> By default, gatsby-mdx supports [frontmatter](/docs/adding-markdown-pages/#frontmatter-for-metadata-in-markdown-files)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, `gatsby-plugin-mdx` supports [frontmatter](/docs/adding-markdown-pages/#frontmatter-for-metadata-in-markdown-files)
```

}
```

> **Note:** To query `Mdx` content, it must be included in the node system using a
> source like the `gatsby-source-filesystem` plugin first. Instructions for sourcing
> content from somewhere like your `/src/pages` directory can be found on the [plugin's README](/packages/gatsby-source-filesystem/).

> Frontmatter is also availalbe in `props.pageContext.frontmatter` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Frontmatter is also available in `props.pageContext.frontmatter` and
```

can be accessed in blocks of JSX in your MDX document:

```markdown
---
title: "Building with Gatsby"
author: "Jay Gatsby"
---

<h1>{props.pageContext.frontmatter.title}</h1>

<span>{props.pageContext.frontmatter.author}</span>

(Blog post content, components, etc.)
```

## Importing JSX components and MDX documents

> Similarly to what you'd do in JSX, you can import and render components

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly to what you'd do in plain React, you can import and render JSX components
```

> ## Importing JSX components and MDX documents

Reviewer 2: Should this be "Importing JSX components _in_ MDX documents"?

Author: I think the "and" is good because it shows that both can be imported rather than just React components. JSX components _and_ MDX documents are able to be imported in an MDX file.

Reviewer 2: ok, we can leave as-is!

> with JSX. You can also import other MDX documents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
directly in Mdx files. You can also import other MDX documents.
```

<FAQ />
```

The `<Chart />` component coming from a `.js` file would be written like any
other React component, the `<FAQ />` component coming from an `.mdx`
file might look something like this:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->

> ```markdown:title="src/content/faq.mdx"

Author: Technically this isn't a layout, it's just overriding the default layout. The pre-existing example had this `faq.mdx` file referenced from `/content` so I just left it. 

Maybe the comment makes it more confusing. The idea here is that you can include MDX documents in other MDX documents, however they're all wrapped by the default layout that's defined in the `gatsby-config`. That means if you include `faq.mdx` inside of a page like `some-guide.mdx` then you'll get this nesting doll effect with the layouts (where headers or nav bars get repeated inside of each other).

The default export makes it so that default layout isn't applied. Any suggestion on how to make it clearer?

<!-- This default export overrides the default layout ensuring -->
<!--  that the FAQ component isn't wrapped by other elements -->
export default ({ children }) => (
  <>
    {children}
  </>
)
```

> **Note**: the default export concept used in this code block is explained in more detail
> in the docs below on [defining layouts](/docs/mdx/writing-pages/#defining-a-layout)

## Using Javascript exports

MDX supports `export` syntax as well, which enables specific use cases like providing data
for queries and rendering or overriding the default layout on MDX documents. You
don't need to export MDX documents to import them in other files.

### Page metadata

You can provide additional data about a given document by exporting.
`gatsby-mdx` will automatically add it to the GraphQL schema so you
can use the exported data in your queries and in rendering.

Data exported in MDX documents in this manner is also made available on the
variable name you've assigned it.

You can export variables, objects, or other data structures:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```markdown
export const metadata = {
  name: "World",
  path: "/world",
};

> <span>Hello, {metadata.name}</span>

Author: There were some issues working with inline JSX (https://github.com/mdx-js/specification/issues/15)

It's being worked on I guess, one curveball this threw is that 

```
# Hello, <span children={metadata.name} /> 
```

Renders correctly whereas 

```
# Hello, <span>{metada.name}</span>`
```

Will not. I suppose I could change this to the first example though.

<FAQ />
```

The `<Chart />` component coming from a `.js` file would be written like any
other React component, while the `<FAQ />` component coming from an `.mdx`
file might look something like this:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->

> ```markdown:title=src/components/faq.mdx

Reviewer: Can we change all of these `markdown` to `mdx`? May take some looking at the way these get added -- if it's not a recognized extension I think it defaults to `text` or something.

Author: I'll look into this yeah that would be good, I think I briefly checked what it would take but never really bothered.

Author: Thanks for noting this, I thought this might be tough, turns out is was pretty easy to fix once I went looking for where it was happening:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/21114044/59540904-6c17b680-8ebc-11e9-82a1-b056fca86c27.png)

## Frequently Asked Questions

### Why Gatsby?

Gatsby delivers faster, more secure sites and apps from a variety of data 
sources

### Where do I start?

The documentation offers guides for all different skill levels, you can 
find more info at the Gatsby's [Quick Start page](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/quick-start)

<!-- This default export overrides the default layout ensuring -->
<!--  that the FAQ component isn't wrapped by other elements -->
export default ({ children }) => (
  <>
    {children}
  </>
)
```

> **Note**: the default export concept used in this code block is explained in more detail
> in the docs below on [defining layouts](#defining-a-layout)

## Using JavaScript exports

MDX supports `export` syntax as well, which enables specific use cases like providing data
for queries and rendering or overriding the default layout on MDX documents. You
don't need to export MDX documents to import them in other files.

### Exporting page metadata

You can provide additional data about a given document by exporting.

> `gatsby-mdx` will automatically add it to the GraphQL schema so you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`gatsby-plugin-mdx` will automatically add it to the GraphQL schema so you
```

can use the exported data in your queries and in rendering.

Data exported in MDX documents in this manner is also made available on the
variable name you've assigned it.

You can export variables, objects, or other data structures:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```markdown
export const metadata = {
  name: "World",
  path: "/world",
};

# Hello, <span children={metadata.name} /> 

The span above will read: "Hello, World".

<!-- you can also use other variables or data structures -->
export const names = ["Abdullah", "Adam", "Alice", "Aida"]

<ul>{names.map(name => <li>{name}</li>)}</ul>
```

The fields `name` and `path` defined on `metadata` could now alternatively
be accessed on MDX nodes in other areas of your Gatsby project by a GraphQL
query like this (this query fetches all MDX nodes and the data exports
associated with them):

```graphql
query MdxExports {
  allMdx {
    nodes {
      exports {
        metadata {
          name
          path
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Defining a layout

> If you have [provided a default layout](/packages/gatsby-mdx/?=mdx#default-layouts) in your `gatsby-config.js`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have [provided a default layout](/packages/gatsby-plugin-mdx/?=mdx#default-layouts) in your `gatsby-config.js`
```

> through the `gatsby-mdx` plugin's options, the exported component you define

Reviewer: ```suggestion
through the `gatsby-plugin-mdx` plugin's options, the exported component you define
```
